# t881: BACKEND

## CONCEPTS

### ASTRONOMICAL NULL
a real, measurable physical event without cultural meaning used for relation-measurements.
> for example: an astronomical equinox
> for example: full moon maximum

### CULTURAL NULL
a kokkulepe

### EPOCH
peatumiskoht, fikseeritud punkt (kreeka keelest); loengusankur
> nt UNIX epoch = 1970-01-01T00:00Z

### CYCLE
ei luba yhtlast pikkust, algust ega l6ppu, aint kordumist


## assumptions
* to keep up with the time(perform calculations based on time), all the Times have a 0-point.
```java
for (gregorian) {
    0000-00-00 = YYYY-MM-DD;
    System.out.println("The birth of Christianity.");
}
```
* to keep up with the age of the current running mode.civilitation, the 0-point is often cultural. 

```js
let newKalendar.start = gregorian(2020-03-19);
```

## goals
* Bye-bye.cultural(Jesus!) 
    a. klass Patriotic {year.now = 13108}
    b. klass Corona {year.now = 5 or 6}
* Bye-bye Roman months!
* Weeks... the most interesting?

# what is a day? what is a date? what is the difference? what are the building blocks? from the top of my head, it will be the seconds and minutes... and we will reform the milliseconds back to 60-format like the babylonians like. and what else will there be? who did the maths? the time maths?

## assumptions about the time
* a day either starts personal-emotionally-inGoodSleepingHabits when Sa wakes up and a day ends when Sa goes to sleep. there have been differing opinions among the humans, most commonly coming in the form of Time Anxiety: the new day with new expectations begins at 00:00, which is the 0-point of the time.clock part. for this project, Sa will not mess with the minutes. the Kalendar relies on 24-hour day as the first primitive something. 
* days follow each other and are ordered into sequences that emotional-personally correspond pretty good to the physical phenomenon called the Climate and Seasons, thus
    * a 4year is a sequence of 3(365*day) + 366*day;
    * a month should roughly be 28*day

### DO WE REALLY NEED A WEEK? 7 = 5 + 2 or 4 + 3. Sa loves to work all the time, but really 3 + 4 is the goal. 
     

```java
for (patrioticKolkaplika) {
    year = kalendar.start{ 
    if (13108 == 2026 && x == 2020) {
        x = 13108 * 2020 / 2026;
        return x; // mida me siin returnime?
    }
    }
    System.out.println("OFC THE FIRST FUNCTION I WRITE IS THE RISTKORRUTIS")

    find.whereAmI(
        today = ??,
    ) 
    patriotic.year.begin = gregorian()
    13109. aasta algab 1.8.2026
    return nullPunkt;
}
```